Changes in Galera 3.34 (2021-07-26)

Codership is pleased to announce the release of Galera Replication library 3.34,
implementing wsrep API version 25.

The library is available as targeted packages and package repositories
for a number of Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS,
RHEL and SLES. Obtaining packages using a package repository
removes the need to download individual files and facilitates the deployment
and upgrade of Galera nodes.

This and future releases will be available from https://www.galeracluster.com.

The latest version of Galera for FreeBSD will be available in the FreeBSD
Ports Collection.

Notable changes and fixes in Galera since latest release 3.33.

- IST failure handling was improved to allow resuming IST after
  process restart.
- A new status variable wsrep_apply_waits was introduced to count the
  number of times an applier thread had to wait for its turn to
  apply a write set.
- An issue of having incorrect certification results right after SST
  was fixed.
- Occasional excessive GCache CPU consumption during IST was fixed.
- GCS flow control now allows write set replication more reliably when
  the node is in Donor state.
- Gcache recovery reliability was improved.

Build fixes:

- CRC32C detection was improved to work correctly with GCC 4.8.
- CK_TIMEOUT_MULTIPLER was restored in Debian build scripts to
  reduce unit test timeouts during builds (codership/galera#558).

End of life notices:

- Ubuntu 16.04 (Xenial) has reached the end of the regular maintenance
  period. Therefore we plan to discontinue providing Galera packages
  for Ubuntu 16.04 after this release.
- Due to little usage pattern we plan to discontinue building Galera 3 packages
  for SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12 after this release.

The users still running above discontinued platforms are adviced to
use the binary tarball package.

Known Issues:

- In order to install Galera package on CentOS 8 or RHEL 8, MySQL and
  MariaDB modules need to be disabled first with `dnf -y module disable
  mysql mariadb`.
