Changes in MySQL-wsrep 5.7.35-25.27 (2021-11-15)

Codership is pleased to announce a new GA release of Galera Cluster for
MySQL 5.7, consisting of MySQL-wsrep 5.7.35 and wsrep API version 25.

This release incorporates all changes up to MySQL 5.7.35.

Galera Cluster 5.7 is available as targeted packages and package
repositories for Debian, Ubuntu, CentOS and RHEL.
Obtaining packages using a package repository removes the need to download
individual files and facilitates the deployment and upgrade of Galera nodes.

This and future releases will be available from https://www.galeracluster.com.

The latest version of MySQL-wsrep 5.7 for FreeBSD will be available
in the FreeBSD Ports Collection.

The source repositories and bug tracking are now on
https://github.com/codership/mysql-wsrep.

Notable changes and fixes in MySQL-wsrep since the latest release 5.7.34-25.26:

- A node hang caused by cluster write conflicts with innodb-thread-concurrency
  configured were fixed (codership/mysql-wsrep#364).
- A node hang caused by deadlock between TRUNCATE TABLE and a query
  in cleanup phase was fixed.
- New wsrep_mode IGNORE_CASCADING_FK_DELETE_MISSING_ROW_ERROR was added
  to work around applying errors with cascading delete. This is a
  workaround for https://bugs.mysql.com/bug.php?id=80821.
- New SST configuration options donor-timeout and joiner-timeout
  were added.
- Executing FLUSH TABLES is now allowed also when not in primary component.
- OpenSSL library version has been updated to version 1.1.1l in
  binary tarball release.

End of life notice:

- Due to little usage pattern building MySQL-wsrep 5.7 packages
  for SUSE Linux Enterprise Server 12 was discontinued.

The users still running above discontinued platforms are adviced to
use the binary tarball package.

Known issues with this release:

- Server cannot be started using 'service' command on Debian Stretch.
- InnoDB tablespaces outside of the data directory are not supported, as they
  may not be copied over during SST
