Codership is pleased to announce a new release of Galera Cluster for MySQL
consisting of MySQL-wsrep 5.6.31 and Galera 3.17, wsrep API version 25.

This release incorporates all changes up to MySQL 5.6.31.

Galera Cluster is now available as targeted packages and package repositories
for a number of Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, Debian, Fedora, CentOS,
RHEL, OpenSUSE and SLES. Obtaining packages using a package repository removes the
need to download individual files and facilitates the deployment and upgrade of
Galera nodes.

This and future releases will be available from http://www.galeracluster.com.
The source repositories and bug tracking are now on http://www.github.com/codership .

New features and notable changes in MySQL-wsrep since last binary release by
Codership (5.6.30):

- An experimental package for Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial is now available. Please see below for
  more information.

- The wsrep_max_ws_rows variable has been fixed and can be used to set the maximum number 
  of rows a transaction can update, delete or insert. The new default value is 0, meaning
  no limit.

- The wsrep_max_ws_size variable and the repl.max_ws_size wsrep provider option have been
  linked together. The new wsrep_max_ws_size default is 2Gb.

- If the master becomes non-Primary and starts returning "Unknown error", an async slave
  that is using the MySQL-wsrep packages will keep retrying rather than stop immediately (MW-284)

Notable bug fixes in MySQL-wsrep:

- The server returned stale values from the NOW() function if transaction replay has
  happened on the connection.

- Updating the wsrep_provider_options while the server was running could cause a memory leak
  (MW-175)

- A spurious deadlock error could be returned if wsrep_on is set to OFF (MW-286)

- The server could crash with a broken foreign key constraint (MW-285)


New features, notable changes and bug fixes in Oracle MySQL 5.6.31:

- Potential buffer overflow issues were fixed.

Known issues with this release:

- If using the Ubuntu 16.04 Xenial package, the server can not be bootstrapped using systemd.
  Please use the SysV init script with the 'bootstap' option to bootstrap the node. Note that
  a server that has been started that way can not be controlled via systemd and must be stopped
  using the SysV script. Normal server startup and shutdown is possible via systemd.
