# Changes in MySQL-wsrep 8.0.36-26.17 (2024-03-26)

Codership is pleased to announce a new GA release of Galera Cluster for MySQL
8.0, consisting of MySQL-wsrep 8.0.36 and wsrep API version 26.

This release incorporates all changes up to MySQL 8.0.36.

Galera Cluster 8.0 is available as targeted packages and package repositories
for Debian 10 (Buster), 11 (Bullseye), and 12 (Bookworm), Ubuntu 20.04 LTS
(Focal) and 22.04 LTS (Jammy), CentOS 7 and RHEL 7, 8, and 9. Obtaining packages
using a package repository removes the need to download individual files and
facilitates the deployment and upgrade of Galera nodes.

This and future releases will be available from https://www.galeracluster.com.

The source repositories and bug tracking are now on
https://github.com/codership/mysql-wsrep.

Notable changes and fixes in MySQL-wsrep since the latest release 8.0.35-26.16:
- Recovering the GTID in case log file contains non-text bytes have been fixed,
ensuring --wsrep-recover option functions correctly. 
- CLONE SST has a few fixes: port settings from my.cnf read if not specified in
wsrep_sst_address, it doesn't use client authentication credentials from m.cnf,
it uses caching_sha2_password now for user creation for SST, no longer
mysql_native_password, and there are better diagnostic messages when used with
SSL.
- More diagnostic functionality including adding transaction sequence numbers
and source IDs for ignored errors, and logging of event of row-based replication
buffer file creation. Skipping doublewrite recovery is only printed when
wsrep_debug is set.
- Standardized TOI error voting in Galera Cluster by using only MySQL error
codes, addressing inconsistencies caused by locale differences and
non-deterministic execution paths. This ensures uniform voting outcomes for TOI
event failures. However, this can break backwards compatibility and opens up a
possibility of a cluster split, so the server side wsrep protocol version is
bumped to 7 in order to keep the old behaviour until the cluster is fully
upgraded. 
- Resolved an issue where a combination of native deadlocks and BF aborts in
stored procedures led to assertion failures. The solution skips wsrep BF abort
error handling for sub-statements, ensuring error handling only post
sub-statement execution.
- Fixed an issue where autocommit SELECT FOR UPDATE queries, if BF aborted,
could lead to inconsistencies and assertions within InnoDB.
- Error handling for SELECT FOR UPDATE inside transaction.
- wsrep_notify_status view should be passed down.


Known Issues:

- InnoDB tablespaces outside of the data directory are not supported, as they
may not be copied over during SST.
