# Changes in Galera 4.17 (2024-01-08)

Codership is pleased to announce the release of Galera Replication library 4.17,
implementing wsrep API version 26.

The library is available as targeted packages and package repositories for a
number of Linux distributions, including Debian 10 (Buster) and 11 (Bullseye),
20.04 LTS (Focal) and 22.04 LTS (Jammy), CentOS 7 and RHEL 7, 8, and 9.
Obtaining packages using a package repository removes the need to download
individual files and facilitates the deployment and upgrade of Galera nodes.

This and future releases will be available from https://www.galeracluster.com.

Notable changes and fixes in Galera since latest release 4.16:
- "Zero-level" certification keys are implemented. Currently there are 3 levels
of resource keys: schema, table, row, yet one common resource used by every
writeset, a node. The key is added by default to every writeset with the default
type WSREP_KEY_SHARED. Now, node-wide operations can be performed with the same
semantics as regular transactions. (codership/galera-bugs#891)
- Non-SYNCED nodes are not counted when calculating commit cut - maximum seqno
that is no longer needed in certification index; situations may arise when group
commit cut is applied before all preceding events are committed on a non-SYNCED
node, now drain all monitors to ensure that preceding events are committed.
- Stability of node joining process for gmcast improved when new nodes are
connecting concurrently as nodes previously may arrive at a different conclusion
on which nodes will be blocked, however now, connections are explicitly allowed
from all nodes which may be accepted as members in the next view.
- Stability of node joining process for EVS improved by dropping EVS join
messages without own identified in joining state, to avoid starting membership
protocol before at least one of the existing nodes has seen at lease one join
message from a joiner. 
- Improve "Failed to report last committed" warning to make it more accurate and
user-friendly.
- Note that there is a new package signing key, 8DA84635

Known Issues:

- In order to install Galera package on RHEL 8, MySQL and MariaDB modules need
to be disabled first with `dnf -y module disable mysql mariadb`.