Changes in Galera 4.11 (2022-02-14)

Codership is pleased to announce the release of Galera Replication library 4.11,
implementing wsrep API version 26.

The library is available as targeted packages and package repositories for a
number of Linux distributions, including Ubuntu, Debian, CentOS and RHEL.
Obtaining packages using a package repository removes the need to download
individual files and facilitates the deployment and upgrade of Galera nodes.

This and future releases will be available from https://www.galeracluster.com.

The latest version of Galera for FreeBSD will be available in the FreeBSD Ports
Collection.

Notable changes and fixes in Galera since latest release 4.10:

- Incremental State Transfer (IST) progress reporting via the event service
interface has been implemented, and the GCache can report ring buffer recovery
progress via the event service interface.
- Library side allowlist functionality corresponding to MDEV-27246 was added.
- Ring buffer has been enhanced to avoid segfaults if an invalid buffer leaks
past the initial recovery scan. dump_map() method implemented for ring buffer to
get more detailed debugging.
- Join messages are always sent when not in JOINER state; this relaxed condition
is required for the correct handling of the desync counter especially in the
DONOR state. This fixes MDEV-27459.
- To avoid printing garbage when logging certification conflicts, we stopped
printing TrxHandleSlave state history, which is also mostly uninteresting since
the state graph is linear. Fixes codership/galera#605 and codership/galera#606
- For applications that do not track the provider side transaction lifetime
accurately, we have a defensive mechanism to not attempt releasing the
transaction for writeset handle with null opaque.
- Library has had changes to allow it to be compiled as a CMake subproject.
- Intermediate libraries are added as STATIC to allow cmake
-DBUILD_SHARED_LIBS:BOOL=ON to work correctly, fixing codership/galera#611.



End of life notices:

- We have stopped building CentOS 8 packages, and we cannot guarantee that
packages built for Red Hat Enterprise Linux 8 will continue working for CentOS
Stream.

The users still running above discontinued platforms are advised to use the
binary tarball package.

Known Issues:

- In order to install Galera package on RHEL 8, MySQL and MariaDB modules need
to be disabled first with `dnf -y module disable mysql mariadb`.